docs: Push notifications ADR (#2)
raccoongang/edx-ace: docs/decisions/0002-push-notifications.rst

Implement Push Notification Channel
==================================================

Status
------

> Accepted

Reviewer: Please change it to proposed

Context
------

> The goal is to enhance the existing notification framework with push notifications.
> Flexibility and seamless integration with the existing framework are priorities
> for this new notification channel. Currently, edx-ace supports various email channels
> like django and Sailthru, but lacks support for mobile push notifications. This feature will
> enable real-time communication with users through their mobile devices, enhancing user
> engagement and ensuring timely delivery of important information.

Reviewer: Please include more context in the first section
```suggestion
The goal of ACE framework is to provide extensible mechanism for extending delivery channels and policies. However, as of May 2024, edx-ace supports various email delivery channels
like django and Sailthru as well as third party API integration for Braze, but lacks support for direct mobile push notifications.
Adding push notifications delivery channel will
enable real-time communication with users through their mobile devices, enhancing user
engagement and ensuring timely delivery of important information.
Flexibility and seamless integration with the existing framework are priorities
for this new notification channel.
```

Reviewer 2: Adeed

Decision
------

> Introduce a new push notification system.

Reviewer: Please describe in more words what exactly is the decision, be descriptive about names of the libraries and frameworks that are involved in the decision

Reviewer 2: Decision extended.

> This will involve:

Reviewer: Please add more description about what actions we should do to make push notifications delivery channel work for people. Including API endpoints and Push notifications rendered templates that should be coming from outside of ACE framework.

Reviewer 2: Done

  - PushNotificationRenderer: Responsible for formatting and structuring the content
    of a push notification. This includes setting the notification's title, body,
    and optional data payload. The renderer will ensure that the notification content

>     adheres to the specifications required by the `firebase_admin SDK <https://github.com/firebase/firebase-admin-python/>`_.

Reviewer: Repeated links to external sources can be added to a footer - https://bashtage.github.io/sphinx-material/rst-cheatsheet/rst-cheatsheet.html#codecell36

Reviewer 2: Done

  - PushNotificationChannel: Handles sending formatted push notifications using
    the `firebase_admin SDK <https://github.com/firebase/firebase-admin-python/>`_.
    The channel will integrate with `django-push-notifications<https://github.com/jazzband/django-push-notifications/>`_
    to streamline the process of dispatching notifications. The core edx-platform
    will handle authorization and manage Firebase credentials, ensuring secure and
    authenticated communication with the Firebase Cloud Messaging (FCM) service.

> Responsibilities:

Reviewer: Please transform this into decision and remove Responsibilities section

Reviewer 2: Moved to decision.

------
Accept notification content and metadata.
Format the content to match the requirements of mobile push notifications.
Include optional data payloads for enhanced functionality (e.g., deep links, custom actions).

Consequences
------

Positive:
  - Adds a new push notification channel, enhancing the notification system's capabilities.
  - Allows real-time communication with users, improving engagement and user experience.
  - Seamless integration with existing edx-ace framework, maintaining consistency and reliability.
  - Utilizes django-push-notifications and firebase_admin, leveraging robust and widely-used
    technologies for push notifications.

> Negative:

Reviewer: Don't need to add two sections as positive and negative, just Consequences section will be enough

Reviewer 2: Changed.

  - Additional complexity in the notification system, requiring maintenance and potential updates.
  - Dependency on Firebase Cloud Messaging (FCM) service, which might introduce external service dependency risks.

> Rejection

Reviewer: Please remove Rejection section title

Reviewer 2: Removed
